.TH 42sh 1 "2016 June 19" "42sh-1.0" "Manpage of 42sh"

.SH NAME

42sh - EPITA's "42" SHell

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B 42sh
[GNU long options] [options] [file]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B 42sh
is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes commands
read from the standard input, from a file, from a here-document or from
argument with
.I -c
\&.
.B 42sh
also incorporates useful features from the Bash shell.

.B 42sh
is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities
portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1).
.B 42sh
can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default.

.SH OPTIONS
.B 42sh
interprets the following options when it is invoked:

.TP
.B -c
If the
.I -c
option is present, then commands are read from the first non-option argument
.I command_string
\&. If there are arguments after the
.I command_string
, they are assigned to the positional parameters, starting with
.I $0
\&.
.TP
.B -h
Display a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.B [-+]O [shopt_option]
.I shopt_option
is one of the shell options accepted by the
.B shopt
builtin (see
.B Shell Command Language
external documentation for further instructions). If
.I shopt_option
is present,
.B -O
sets the value of that option;
.B +O
unsets it. If
.I shopt_option
is not supplied, the names and values of the shell options accepted by
.B shopt
are printed on the standard output. If the invocation option is
.B +O
, the output is displayed in a format that may be reused as input.
.TP
.B --
A
.B --
signals the end of options and disables further option processing. Any arguments
after the
.B --
are treated as filenames and arguments. An argument of
.B -
is equivalent to
.B --
\&.
.TP
.B -v
Show version information for this instance of
.B 42sh
on the standard output and exit successfully.

.PP
.B 42sh
also interprets a number of multi-character options. These options must appear
on the command line before the single-character options to be recognized.

.TP
.B --ast-print
Creates an image copy in the current directory of the
.I Abstract Syntax Tree
representation used internally to execute your script / command.

.TP
.B --no-rc
Do not read and execute the personal initialization file
.I ~/.42shrc
if the shell is interactive. This option is on by default if the
shell is invoked as
.B sh
\&.
.TP
.B --version
Equivalent to
.B -v
\&.

.SH AUTHORS

.TP
.B Jean Treibert
Project Manager of the Century -- Testsuite Master & Execution Padawan
.I <jean.treibert@epita.fr>

.TP
.B Martin Lees
Git Destroyer -- Execution Master
.I <martin.lees@epita.fr>

.TP
.B Lucas Moisan
Tryharder -- Parser Master
.I <lucas.moisan@epita.fr>

.TP
.B Thomas Domingues
Crazy but lazy -- Lexer Master
.I <thomas.domingues@epita.fr>
